hi everybody I'm David sizer and I'm
here to talk with you today about
wedding photography wedding photography
has gone through a whole bunch of
changes since I got involved in this
business a few years ago you know look
how long we've been involved in digital
photography I switched to shooting
digital around the end of the year 2000
my gosh that's at seven years eight
years ago so most of us have really
adopted digital photography and our
profession and our portraits and our
weddings whatever other photography we
might happen to be doing it's
interesting when I give lectures these
days I ask the audience I said how many
people have never shot film before and
it's amazing the number of hands that
are being raised these days you know a
couple of years ago was just a couple in
the audience was which was still
shocking to the film guys that were
still alive sitting in the audience but
more and more people have never touched
the film camera before and it's
something we have to be aware of many of
you in the audience maybe have never
shot film before but you know it's my
bread and butter for a number of years
but I'll tell you I love the digital I
love the versatility it brings to our
profession I love the creativity it
brings to our profession and I love the
beauty I think we're delivering the
prettiest photographs we ever have
deliver to our clients these days
because of digital now what am I talking
about
in our wedding photography today and our
lessons today you know what the thing
that really makes us different from so
many shooters out there is how we use
our light since the age of digital which
is trans you know for the last couple
four five six years as people came on
board with digital there's been a
tremendous amount of more shooters out
there there's a tremendous increase in
wedding shooters out there you know we
think we can go to Best Buy or a dorama
or B&H whatever pick up our cameras put
a flash on top of it and all of a sudden
were wedding shooters but I'll tell you
I've been at at a long time and I know
that whether I was involved in it 30 20
15 10 years ago there was always one
prime directive for me in my photography
and that prime directive was I had to
make my work look different from anybody
else out there it was a way I was able
to kind of raise my head above the crowd
to just have my clients seek me out
because of those differences it's the
differences that we bring to our
photography that help our clients seek
us out and find us among the masses out
there it's the reason they want to hire
us is because it's because our
photography looks different
to them so today with so many shooters
out there so many photographers with
their Nikon's and their cannons and
every other brand that's out there and
with their on camera flashes and their
their bouncing they're doing this and
that and everything else with their
flashes what can we do that's different
how can we make our photography look
more different than the masses out there
ladies and gentlemen the easiest way to
make our photography look different is
how we invite it not just in the posing
but let's first of all let's talk about
the basic lighting on the scene you know
what so many people have their on-camera
flash it goes straight ahead or off of a
ceiling or whatever it happens to be but
if we can put a pretty light on our
subjects the clients will seek us out
because we're flattering them in those
photographs so in this first video what
I want to talk about is how we can go
ahead and use our on-camera flash in
ways more creatively maybe we've even
thought about to actually get these
photons that are coming out of this
flash head instead of just going right
into our bride and groom may be bouncing
them off a wall over here then coming
back hitting our bride and groom to put
a beautiful directional light on our
subject whether some of the other things
we can do what we're going to see how
much creativity we can wring out of our
lighting with our on-camera flash that's
the topic of this video tutorial